# English-Composition-Analyser
An English composition analyser developed in Pascal language, using Lazarus.

As the name ‘English Composition Analyser’ suggests, it was, of course, developed for analysing English compositions. Users only need to press a few buttons for a detailed statistical report of the loaded English composition. This significantly reduces the time taken to grade English compositions as users no longer need to perform those time-consuming yet indicative routines including but not limited to counting the number of words and finding the spelling mistakes. Such kind of low-level operations will now be taken over by this software.
- Developed using Pascal language
- Developed using Lazarus
- Developed for analysing English compositions

### Purpose of the Software

This ‘English Composition Analyser’ aims to lessen the burden of people who are having a hard time grading English composition. Grading English composition is a tough and time-consuming job. Even though the scores can or maybe a bit subjective, still, it needs to base on some objective statistics such as the total number of words and the number of spelling mistakes. Therefore, the marker needs to flip the composition over and over again before they can sort those numbers out. It may seems easy for a couple or two compositions, but imagine yourself as an English teacher – you need to grade about thirty compositions! It is an unmitigated problem if you continue to do the job manually. For sake of getting rid of the troublesome, this software was developed to aid the English composition markers.

### Statistical Functions

In this ‘English Composition Analyser’, there are a total of five statistical functions.

For the first statistical function, the ‘Word Counter’, it provides the user with the total number of words of the composition.  This function is extremely useful as the statistic is of paramount importance in judging the quality of the composition. Without sufficient amount of words, it is certain that the composition cannot really express or illustrates anything meaningful. Hence, the grade is justifiable to be lower than average. Besides, according to the composition marking guidelines from the Hong Kong Education Bureau, the grade of compositions fewer than the required number of words cannot exceed ‘Level 4’. Thus, this statistical function is extremely useful in determining the grade of the composition.

For the second statistical function, the ‘Paragraph Counter’, it shows user the total number of paragraph in the composition. Same as the above one, this function is also overwhelmingly important in deciding the grade of a composition. It is because even with sufficient number of words, if the composition has too few paragraphs, it implies that the writer does not organise his ideas well. Therefore, the organisation marks would still be low. Thus, this statistical function is also useful in classifying masterpieces and poor works.

The third statistical function, the ‘Frequency Counter’, it is also undeniably useful in grading the composition. It is because with the use of famous idioms and quotes, the article will definitely sounds more persuasive and reasonable, and the score will be higher correspondingly. With this function, the marker can check whether there are any uses of idioms and quotes simply by typing the phrases into the appropriate place in this software. Thus, it is without doubt that this statistical function is very useful.

Apart from the above statistical functions, there is a ‘Spelling Mistakes Finder’ in this software too. This function can shows the user how many spelling mistakes were found in the composition with the aid of a dictionary containing numerous words. This function is especially useful because according to the marking guidelines, marks will be deducted whenever a wrong word was found. Therefore, this statistical function is essential when it comes to determining the actual grade of the composition.

Last but not least, the ‘Incorrect Capitalisation Finder’. This statistical function is also useful in grading a piece of composition. It is because even a piece of composition is very outstanding in terms of meaning, choice of words, and organisation, it cannot be treated as a masterpiece unless its capitalisation of letters are perfect too. Any incorrect capitalisation of letters will result in a deduction of the final score.

To conclude, the above five statistical functions are absolutely of supreme importance. It is unthinkable that any of these statistical functions being absent from the ‘English Composition Analyser’. Only with all these functions, the ‘English Composition Analyser’ could assist and provide the best grading experience for the marker.

### Special Features

Apart from the five essential statistical functions mentioned above, there are also several special features provided in this ‘English Composition Analyser’.

First of all, for the ‘Spelling Mistakes Displayer’, it will lists the words with spelling mistakes, and the sentences and paragraph which that particular word is from. This function can help the marker easier to locate the words with spelling mistakes and facilitate the marker to perform further actions.

The second feature is the ‘Grade Suggestion’ function. It will suggest a range of grades for the marker to determine the actual grade for the composition. This can be done because in the composition marking guidelines from the Hong Kong Education Bureau, there is a grade cap for compositions with lower than the required number of words. Moreover, as I mentioned above, the grade for compositions with only a few paragraphs or little to no use of idioms and quotes cannot receive high grades, and vice versa. Therefore, based on the statistics analysed by the five statistical functions, the software can roughly determines the range of grades of the compositions for the marker. This helps to save the marker’s precious time as the marker now have something to rely on.

The third among the total of eight features is ‘The Clock’. For ‘The Clock’, it seems like it is simply just a clock, but it does more than a common clock. It actually enables users to include the date and time of analysing the composition in the composition analytical report. This may seems useless but actually, this can help users to manage their time and work much better. This function is especially essential to users who need to analyse a batch of compositions. It is because with this feature, they can know exactly how much time they spent on a particular composition. So if they are lagging behind their schedule, they can speed up. Thus, this can effectively enables them to meet their targets and manage their work better. However, some people may overlook the importance of this feature. They think that the operating system, such as Windows 7 or Mac OS, already provides a clock for the users. It is not that essential to add one more clock. But actually, as people always say, ‘focusing too intently on one thing can make you blind to important details’. When the user is paying all the attention to this ‘English Composition Analyser’, the user may, indeed, overlooks the clock provided by the operating system as that clock is not located inside this software. Therefore, ‘The Clock’ is essential to users.

The fourth feature, ‘Comment’ enables users to give some comments and responds to the composition. The typed comments will then be printed in the composition analytical report. The user can open the report anytime to review the previous comments. This is a very meaningful and useful feature. It is because human’s memory is limited. No one can remember every composition they read. However, a few words related to the composition can helps users to recall their memory. This helps to save time as users no longer need to read the composition once again. Instead, they just need to read a few lines of comments which they left in the first reading.

‘“Missing Composition” Reminder’ is the fifth feature. What this feature does is  that there will be a notification reminding the user to choose a composition (.txt document) after the user clicked the button to load a composition, and however, due to some unforeseen circumstances or mistakes, that user closes the file browser, leaving the software with no composition. This feature is useful, as it prevents the user from analysing nothing, so as not to waste the precious time of the user as well as prevents the user from getting some wrong and useless statistics.

Apart from the above features, the sixth one is the ‘Progression Indicator’. This feature allows users to keep track of their own progression on analysing the composition. By getting more statistics, the user can increase the progression. A hundred per cent of progression rate means that the user has got all the statistics needed to grade the composition and also has given a comment on the composition. This is very helpful to users as it helps them not to go astray. It is because, with the indicator, they can know what to do next and how far are they from getting all the statistics they need to grade a composition.

For the seventh feature, ‘Report Preview’, it allows users to have a glimpse of the final composition analytical report before they actually save it. The user can then choose to amend the content of the report. For example, users can choose to include the date and time of analysing the composition in the analytical report. This feature can obviously let users have more control over the format as well as the content of the analytical report, allowing the software to be more user-friendly.

Last but not least, ‘Report Generation’ is the eighth feature. With this feature, users can generate a composition analytical report based on the analysed statistics and then save the report in the format of text documents (.txt). This feature is extremely important as it allows users to recall the previous analysed data and statistics of compositions without needing to analyse them once again. This undeniably stops users from wasting time on doing meaningless things. Furthermore, this feature allows users to customise the name of the report. Thanks to that, users can classify different reports, so that users can know exactly which composition is the report related to, and not being mistaken. Therefore, the feature is essential to the software and is extremely important.

To conclude, the above special features are unbelievably useful and helpful to the user, and these certainly complements the original software and allowing it to become a user-friendly and comprehensive software.
